---
title: 101
description: The first post of this blog, talking about the journey so far.
date: '10/12/2024'
---

# 101

> <center>You cannot force passion, passion is a force</center>

Journey 101 - Where it all begins (this is a bit of a read, but I hope it will be worth your time).

If you had told me this was where I was going to be a few years ago I probably wouldn't believe it. But looking back now at all that has happened, I wouldn't change a thing. A lot has happened the past while ago, and I've been able to learn and do a lot since then.

## The Past

Graduating from Secondary School was an awesome feeling (at least I get to have a break from school runs for a much longer while :)). I felt quite content with how my school story turned out in the end, and I will always be grateful for it. However, this isn't about secondary school, it's about my story so far, because honestly speaking I wasn't actually a fan of coding in the beginning, so me being able to [make my own website](https://github.com/nikeokoronkwo/website) and being able to work on [these kind of projects](/projects) is definitely not something I would've expected.

### In the beginning...
I've had multiple attempts on learning how to code since I got an iPad in primary school - funny enough I actually didn't start off with Python, but Swift through this little fun app then called [Swift Playgrounds](https://developer.apple.com/swift-playgrounds/). One issue I had back then was consistency - at first it would be interesting and something worth the time, but then as concepts became more tricky and, most importantly, as time went on, I didn't really feel the same vibe from when I started (and even though coding was facinating and all then, I didn't really like it). Eventually I would abandon it, and such was the same story for the next few years — during this period I had attempted Swift and Java [while it was still possible](https://chromeunboxed.com/google-shutting-down-grasshopper-coding-app). This continued until my final year of secondary school.

### So what was different this time?
Well apart from age and maturity, my mentality for this attempt changed quite a bit. One good way of being able to achieve a certain goal can be taken (funnily) from how villains in movies work (I know, probably not the example you were thinking). 
Whatever side you're on, great villains are one of the most determined people there are, and for one major reason — villains always have a goal they aim for, as well as what they plan on doing at the end of reaching that goal. Having goals aren't a new thing, but many goals, including mine back then, were vague. This time, I was able to set a clear goal to work towards — taking part in a coding competition.

At my final year in school I signed up for two online coding competitions with some of my classmates despite not having good/serious coding experience. This was a very much clear (and pretty deterministic) goal that had to be achieved at a certain time, and this helped provide the _constant_ drive to learn how to code properly this time. This time, I learned C++ and I started from the ground up. 

This was a very much fun experience, and I finally started to like coding. The competitions came and left, but my coding journey didn't stop then. And now that I had finished

## So what's the basic takeaway?
1. Great things _definitely_ take time, and it's one thing to embrace and understand that there are no shortcuts to. I had started coding way back thinking there would be a shortcut to getting extremely good in coding like in movies